---
layout: post
title: "Pulp Fiction (1994)"
subtitle: "Literally one of the best movies of all time!"
tag: Film
date: 2018-10-22
background: https://timedotcom.files.wordpress.com/2014/10/pulp-fiction.jpeg?w=1080&quality=100
---
Pulp Fiction is one of my favourite movies of all time. I’m going to try my best to not insert any bias into this review. The cinematography in Pulp Fiction is really good, with Andrezj Sekula making some really good stylistic choices. Quentin Tarantino’s signature dialogue returns, making Pulp Fiction one of the most quotable movies anybody will ever watch. The plot follows cliched gangster stories(taking the boss’s wife out to dinner, fixed boxing match, a robbery and an assassination/intimidation) and smashes them together in a way very different to anything you have ever seen before. Pulp Fiction uses a non-linear format of storytelling, meaning that the events that you see in the movie will not follow any order. 

Andrezj Sekula has worked with Quentin Tarantino before on Reservoir Dogs. As such, he knew what to expect and he probably had a clear idea of what visual, cinematic choices he wanted to make. A lot of the dialogue-heavy scenes are done in one long take allowing the actors to act. The camerawork accurately conveyed the feeling that the viewer should have during the scene and thereby immerses the viewer deeper into the super hip gangster world.

Pulp Fiction takes 3 separate stories and merges them into one big story. This is the movie that popularised non-linear storytelling. Not only does Tarantino masterfully integrate all the stories into each other he also makes the effects of each story visible in the other stories. 

Amanda Plummer(Joe Versus the Volcano, The Fisher King) and Tim Roth(Reservoir Dogs, Hateful Eight) have such an amazing chemistry in the opening scene of Pulp Fiction. Not only is it hilarious, but it also manages to hook the viewer in quickly and efficiently. Samuel L Jackson(Do the Right Thing, Goodfellas, Jungle Fever) and John Travolta(Saturday Night Fever, Grease) also have an incredible rapport that extends throughout the entire film. Actress Uma Thurman(Kill Bill Vol 1,) also plays well with John Travolta. I especially enjoyed the Jack Rabbit Slim’s scene(Uncomfortable Silence).

Pulp Fiction is amazing. Quentin Tarantino is the master of breathing fresh air into what was previously thought of as a “dead” cliche. The entire cast gave great performances and the cinematography was beautiful.

**Cinematography:** 2.4/3

**Acting:** 2.6/3

**Plot:** 2.5/3

**Total:** 7.3/9.0 or 83.3%