---
layout: post
title: "2.0 (2018)"
subtitle: "what."
tag: Film
date: 2018-12-26
background: https://static-news.moneycontrol.com/static-mcnews/2018/12/a.jpg
---
2.0 is best experienced in 3D because the visual effects and CGI utilised are of top-notch quality. Couple this with a great performance from Rajinikanth along with a mediocre plot and the result is 2.0. The movie feels as if the writers decided to overextend it to reach the three-hour mark. However, the villain’s origin story is creative and allows the viewer of the film to feel for the villain. However, the ending of the movie isn’t well-executed and ruins any chance of the movie’s ending feeling satisfactory.

2.0 begins with a man hanging himself in a cell phone tower. The next day, all the phones in Chennai suddenly fly into the sky pulled by an unknown force. The government calls in Dr Vaseegaran to fix this issue. He decides to call in his robot Chitti to save the day. 2.0 relies too much on its previous outing because it expects us to know who the main characters are from the get-go. However, the movie does raise some important points through its villain even though these points are neglected in the latter part of the movie. One of the main issues with 2.0 is that its plot is over-extended. The movie should have ended about 20 minutes after the intermission.

Akshay Kumar’s performance of Pakshi Rajan is amazing, especially so, in the flashback scene. The amount of emotion he conveys to the audience through the simplest twitch of an eyebrow is insane. However, most of the dialogue in the movie is so poorly written that even a great performance cannot save this movie. Amy Jackson’s performance of the robot Nila is wildly inconsistent and her character does not add anything meaningful to the movie and it is obvious that the writers just needed a female lead.

2.0 is a visual masterpiece especially in the fight scenes towards the end of the movie. The scope of the fight scenes is what really stands out in the end product. However, some of the CGI feels cheap not because of the quality of the CGI but because each object is just a duplicate of the same actor and if there are too many duplicates, it ruins the amount of gravitas that the scene has in its final cut.

**Cinematography:** 2.3/3

**Acting:** 2.1/3

**Plot:** 1.8/3

**Total:** 6.2/9.0 or 68.8%