---
layout: post
title: "Baby Driver (2017)"
subtitle: "Fantastic soundtrack and visual panache makes this movie one of my favourites!"
tag: Film
date: 2018-11-21
background: https://www.thenational.ae/image/policy:1.610119:1500438899/Film-Review-Baby-Driver.jpg?f=16x9&w=1200&$p$f$w=f040f71
---
Baby Driver is like the Fast and the Furious franchise if the Fast and Furious franchise wasn’t repetitive and bland. Baby Driver utilises diegetic and non-diegetic sound effectively and all the actions in the movie sync to the music. The cinematography complements the music. The plot of the movie would be cliched without the refreshing backing track that is added and raised to a place of importance. Ansel Elgort fits the role of Baby perfectly.

The story follows Baby, an excellent driver who has a tinnitus(which causes the feeling of a ringing in the affected person’s) and uses music to drown it out. He works as a getaway driver for Doc(a criminal mastermind). He doesn’t intend to stay in that field forever and has his eyes set on riding away into the sunset with his waitress girlfriend. However, things get complicated during Baby’s last job. The plot is cliched, but that is exactly what makes it interesting. Edgar Wright’s speciality is mashing up genres in unexpected ways to make great movies and Baby Driver is no different.

The cinematography is exceptional, but the editing is even better. All of the shots highlight the music which is principal “characters” in the movie. The editing is synced to the beat and this creates an additional layer of engagement for the audience. The car chase scenes were exciting and adrenaline-fueled. The music fits the mood of the scenes well and the actions are timed to the music. 

Ansel Elgort fits the role of Baby perfectly. The ending of the movie is romantically heart-wrenching because it is not the ending that the character deserves. Egerton plays the character in a way where you can relate to him and feel for him, especially at the end of the movie. Jamie Foxx plays his character in a deliberately psychotic way. This affects the audience perception of him and it also adds more tension to the scenes in which he is interacting with Baby. 

Edgar Wright does forego his style of visual comedy in Baby Driver, this is his first movie in an actual American setting. Baby Driver is his best film to date and I cannot wait to see what his next project is.

**Cinematography:** 2.5/3

**Acting:** 2.1/3

**Plot:** 2.2/3

**Total:** 6.8/9.0 or 75.5%