---
layout: post
title: "Fargo (1996)"
subtitle: "Hilarity + Crime + Drama = Fargo?"
tag: Film
date: 2018-11-15
background: https://miro.medium.com/max/1366/1*9bJJdMlgR3NsVo5TX4aAhw.png
---
Fargo is superbly shot, funny and contains well-developed characters that play off each other in interesting ways. Most of the movie is shot on location and as such has the true-story vibe that it tries(and succeeds) to achieve. All of the scenes fit the darkly humorous tone that the movie has. All the actors give great performances with Frances McDormand, in particular, playing Marge Gunderson spectacularly well.

Fargo follows Jerry Lundergard, a car salesman who is in serious debt. He hires two gangsters to kidnap his wife so that her wealthy father will pay the ransom, which he will then split between himself and the gangsters. The elaborate scheme eventually fails when the gangster duo decides to shoot a state trooper. Fargo’s plot really starts to get interesting around the midway point, when Marge Gunderson is introduced. One of Fargo's main charms is how the characters feel realistic. 

The audience’s perception of the realism of the aforementioned characters can also change depending on how the actors play their characters and the cast of Fargo play their respective characters amazingly. Frances McDormand and John Carroll Lynch have such an amazing chemistry that you could be forgiven for thinking they were married in real life(they aren’t. Frances McDormand is actually married to Joel Coen). McDormand plays her character with such realism because she focuses on the tiniest details.

The cinematography is Fargo is brilliant because it adds to the true story feeling of this movie. It achieves this feeling because it shoots on location in North West Minnesota. All of the wide shots really add to the feeling of class that this movie has. Every single shot is a delight to the eyes and also really manages to communicate the character’s feelings.

Fargo is an astonishingly interesting movie and I’m sure that it only gets more and more interesting with each rewatch. It puts a great spin on the Drama/Crime genre and is an enjoyable watch!

**Cinematography:** 2.4/3

**Acting:** 2.2/3

**Plot:** 2.2/3

**Total:** 6.8/9.0 or 75.5%