---
layout: post
title: "The Grinch (2018)"
subtitle: "Not as good as the live-action Grinch, but some top-quality animation!"
tag: Film
date: 2018-12-09
background: https://cf-images.us-east-1.prod.boltdns.net/v1/static/769341148/20c5f6a3-0ed3-40a7-a6f6-5396efe4e57c/212ef95b-9ab1-4584-8c1b-5414a19c27f5/1280x720/match/image.jpg
---
The Grinch is a beautifully animated movie. The cinematography and lighting are used exceptionally well. However, this retelling of The Grinch is disappointing because it tells a milder version if the classic Grinch tale. Although the Grinch is a Christmas tale, this movie decides to go the comedic route rather than focusing on the emotional aspects of the story. Don’t get me wrong, the movie does focus on the Grinch’s loneliness, but that aspect of the movie just feels like it was bolted on at the last minute.

The Grinch follows The Grinch(surprise surprise) and his dog Max. They live together in a mountain above a town called Who-Ville. The Grinch hates Christmas because of some traumatic events that occurred during his childhood. So when the Grinch finds out that the Who's have decided to make Christmas three times bigger this year, he hatches a cunning plot to steal Christmas. The movie does not have a large number of emotional moments but the ones that are in the movie are executed well thanks to good acting and even better cinematography.

The movie is narrated by Pharell Williams, who sounds impassionate and bored. The narration feels unnecessary and useless as it doesn’t really add anything of value to the story. Benedict Cumberbatch voices the Grinch well, clearly demonstrating the change in the character’s perception of Christmas. Cumberbatch is the driving force behind many of the emotional beats in the movie. Another great character in the movie is Max and although his character isn’t voiced by anybody, the animators have done a great job of conveying his emotions with little to no speech. 

The Grinch has a bright, vibrant world and the animation reflects that. It conveys the difference between the Grinch’s loneliness and Who-Ville’s spirited and energetic take on life. Even though the Whovians(?) do not look like normal humans, the character models look realistic and the lighting is amazing.

The Grinch is a Christmas movie and not a very good one at that. Watch the Jim Carrey version instead!

**Cinematography:** 2.4/3

**Acting:** 2.2/3

**Plot:** 1.9/3

**Total:** 6.5/9.0 or 72.2%