---
layout: post
title: "Transmission (2017)"
subtitle: "Underwhelming ending..."
tag: Film
date: 2018-11-20
background: https://transmission35mm.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/PHOTO-OPPORTUNITY-1310x548.jpg
---
**This review is for a short movie called TRANSMISSION that is available on [Vimeo](https://goo.gl/dXQsmT)**


Transmission is a short film that tries to put a different spin on the classic interrogation scenes of movies. Although it’s ending may be disappointingly underwhelming, it is backed up by semi-decent performances and amazing cinematography. 

The movie follows Leonard, who is being tortured for information by Doctor Sam. However, Doctor Sam uses an unorthodox(also highly illegal) method of torture that involves using hallucinations against the captive. 

Leonard is played by Michael Shon and although Leonard never speaks, Shon portrays the character’s emotions by paying attention to minor details. James Hyland’s performance of Doctor Sam was not very interesting as he seemed to be portraying the villain in a very cliched way. Hyland’s performance was pretty much by the book and this was off-putting in a movie that deals with hallucinations and the like.

The entire movie was shot on 35mm film. According to the filmmakers, this was done due to 35mm films response to lighting movement and grain. The original score that is used to influence how the audience responds emotionally to the movie. The cinematography is very well executed, however, the editing, although creative, could have used a little more inventiveness(especially in its utilisation of the score). 

Where Transmission falls short, however, is in its plot. While the premise of the movie sounds interesting, the plot fails to build upon it. The ending of the movie is also highly unoriginal and sees everything just return to the status quo. However, I do have to say that the ending did fit the overall moody and grim tone of the movie.

All in all, Transmission was a short film that was interesting, but not engaging enough. It also lacked an ending that made watching the movie feel like it was worth it. However, it is only 17 minutes long and it is well worth a watch just to analyse the cinematography and listen to the score.

**Cinematography:** 2.3/3

**Acting:** 2/3

**Plot:** 1.7/3

**Total:** 6/9.0 or 66.6%