---
layout: post
title: "Billy Madison (1995)"
subtitle: "Utterly bland and repetitive comedy"
tag: Film
date: 2018-10-20
background: https://www.washingtonpost.com/resizer/IYhOasY9kzl-1A6-V8K_eUty2f4=/1484x0/arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/OZI5WVIJXA3VTPW5IOEVP3VNDM.jpg
---
Not only is Billy Madison utterly uninventive and unintelligent, but it also contains some pretty bad acting. The comedy is bland, repetitive and predictable. The best part of the movie is the cinematography and even that is just… average. 

The first thing any viewer will notice when they start playing the movie is that they will be both visually and aurally assaulted. Even though Adam Sandler(The Ridiculous Six, Pixels, Happy Gilmore) may be playing a dim-witted character he absolutely does not have to behave in a way that makes dim-witted people seem even dimmer than they actually are.. While I am well aware that this may be a fault of the script and that this was Adam Sandler’s first screenplay. By the end of the movie, I was confused as to whether or not Billy Madison’s was somehow mentally impaired. For some reason, some of the other actors tried to emulate Billy Madison’s character and the end product was a bunch of character’s with hardly any variation in between. While there are some sweet moments in this movie, they are utterly ruined by other points in the movie which try to be comedic but fail. 

The comedy in this movie is not a very intelligent brand of comedy. Instead, it just flings line after line at the viewer hoping that some of the lines will hit. Most of the lines don’t but the ones that do are hilarious(People to kill list, the penguin, O’Doyles). 

The movie’s premise is uninventive and predictable. When I read the premise I thought: “Huh. This sounds too boring to have been made. I bet they did something inventive to make it interesting.”. Sure enough, I was right. They did do something interesting. They tried to add Adam Sandler’s unique delivery to it.  Unfortunately, it never gets a chance to shine due to Sandler’s weak acting. 

All in all, I think that Billy Madison is a movie that does have it’s moments, only to have those moments immediately ruined by other, worse moments. The premise is very, very basic and unoriginal, while the acting isn’t very good either.

**Cinematography:** 1.3/3

**Acting:** 0.7/3

**Plot:** 0.5/3

**Total:** 2.5/9.0 or 27%