---
layout: post
title: "Birdman (2014)"
subtitle: "Fantastic performances from all the cast members help accentuate the amazing story"
tag: Film
date: 2018-10-16
background: https://i.ytimg.com/vi/gAwqciJ5b04/maxresdefault.jpg
---
Birdman (or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance) is hilarious, but only in the sort of way that Stanley Kubrick’s movies are hilarious. The cinematography is beautiful and actually manages to immerse the viewer in Riggan Thompson’s (played by Michael Keaton) life. It also manages to communicate the story across in a way that does not tell the viewer what is happening but instead chooses to show the viewer. 

Birdman follows Riggan who, in the past, acted as superhero Birdman. His career has been steadily declining since Birdman 3. In desperation, Riggan writes, directs and stars in his Broadway adaptation Raymond Carver’s What We Talk About When We Talk About Love. When one of the main actors gets is injured, the brilliant but explosive actor Mike Shiner (played by Edward Norton) has to take over. Things start to snowball from there.

Birdman is a movie that is very meta. For example, Keaton is essentially Riggan personified. Keaton starred in Tim Burton’s Batman and ever since, his career has been in a steady decline until Birdman and Spiderman: Homecoming provided a fresh breath of air to his career.

Keaton(Batman, Spiderman: Homecoming), Norton(Incredible Hulk, Fight Club) and Stone (Maniac, La La Land) all provide amazing performances and I really enjoyed watching the way Stone’s character interacted with both Keaton’s character and Norton’s character. I don’t think that the casting of Zach Galifianakis was appropriate for this movie and while he doesn’t provide a bad performance it isn’t one of his best.

Director of Photography, Emmanuel Lubezki (The Revenant, Gravity) uses slow pans, while the editors of the movie use computer-generated keyframes and careful editing to make the movie seem to have been completed in A SINGLE TAKE. This would have been an incredible feat to pull off and I am glad that director Alejandro G. Inarritu stuck to his original idea because the movie is taken to a whole new level of immersiveness. 

Birdman’s ending wants you to make up your own mind and as such there are multiple different ways that the audience can interpret it. I could spend hours and hours analysing the themes and morals in this movie (I may do so in a separate document) but I won’t. Birdman (or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance) is the product when both the cast and the crew all work together to produce something this beautiful.

**Cinematography:** 2.7/3

**Acting:** 2.3/3

**Plot:** 2.1/3

**Total:** 7.1/9.0 or 78.8%