---
layout: post
title: "Killer's Kiss (1955)"
subtitle: "Fantastic cinematography and a fantastic plot elevates this movie"
tag: Film
date: 2018-11-26
background: http://images.amcnetworks.com/ifccenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/killers-kiss_1280x720.jpg
---
Killer’s Kiss is a prime example of a movie with a half-decent storyline that is taken to the next level thanks to amazing cinematography. Although the acting isn’t on par with Kubrick’s later movies and the characters all feel very wooden and predictable, the cinematography is subtle and yet it highlights so many important plot points. The way the plot is framed and shown to the viewer is interesting enough to be engaging for the entirety of the movie’s one-hour runtime.

Killer’s Kiss follows Davey Gordon,  a boxer who is well past his prime, as he meets a dancer, named Gloria Price, who he immediately falls in love with. Their relationship is interrupted by Gloria’s boss, Vincent Rapallo. Gloria and Gordon decide to move back to Seattle, but before they can Rapallo abducts Gloria. The movie gets a lot more interesting towards the end because of the way that the plot is framed. Most of the movie is told in past tense and the start of the movie is relatively slow and uninteresting.

The cinematography in a Killer’s Kiss is subtle in the way that it conveys the actions of the villains however, it is still highly effective. A great example of this that is reflected in the movie is the scenes that are recorded in Davey’s apartment. Lighting is utilised expertly and draw the audience’s attention even without explicitly pointing it out.

The acting in Killer’s Kiss is mediocre and none of the actors are particularly good at demonstrating the emotions of their respective characters. However, Frank Silvera’s plays the villain in an interesting way and his performance of Rapallo picks up towards the end with his final lines with Gloria being the most menacing out of the entire movie. The music also directly contrasts with the scene that is on-screen. The volume of the music is also inconsistent and does not add any value to the scene. However, the ballet scene was an interesting way of framing the piece of backstory that was narrated by one of the characters.

Killer’s Kiss is another great example of Kubrick developing himself as a filmmaker. This movie is an exponential improvement over Fear and Desire!

**Cinematography:** 2.2/3

**Acting:** 1.7/3

**Plot:** 1.9/3

**Total:** 5.8/9.0 or 64.4%