---
layout: post
title: "Kill Bill (2003/04)"
subtitle: "Fantastic acting, fantastic fight scenes and fantastic plot makes Kill Bill an unmissable feature"
tag: Film
date: 2018-10-29
background: https://www.syfy.com/sites/syfy/files/styles/1140x640/public/syfywire_blog_post/2018/09/kill_bill.jpg
---
This review is for both volumes one and two of Kill Bill. The reasoning behind this choice is because Tarantino’s original vision for this movie was to have it released as one entire movie. However, due to a runtime of over 4 hours, it was divided into 2 movies. As such I believe that they are directly connected and are meant to be watched in their respective orders. I have also chosen to watch the version of Kill Bill with some black and white fight scenes instead of watching the fully colourised version due to lack of availability.

Kill Bill is/was Tarantino’s first foray into the action genre and this movie solidifies his place as one of the great modern directors. The movie contains amazing martial arts fight scenes and Uma Thurman gives a great performance as “The Bride”. The plot manages to both be action-packed and emotional at the appropriate times. David Carradine’s character, the titular “Bill” has a satisfyingly emotional close to his character arc. The cinematography is stellar with Quentin Tarantino leaning back on all the same shots/angles that he normally uses.

The fight scenes in Kill Bill would come to define the action genre for generations and generations to come. Legendary choreographer Yuen Woo-ping did some of his finest work in this movie and it really does give the movie that extra layer of polish. Uma Thurman did a lot of the stunts herself, after training for hours and hours. Even though Tarantino was forced to make some of the more gruesome scenes in Kill Bill black and white due to censorship restrictions, he manages to use that as a tool, not a crutch. The anime style fight scene in the movie was also superbly executed.

All the actors give extraordinary performances. Thurman, in particular, plays the Bride with a real understanding of the Bride’s character and she succeeds in portraying the Bride in a way that allows the audience to connect with the character on an emotional level. David Carradine, who plays Bill in the movie, delivers his lines with a dry, humourless voice that still manages to add depth to his character.

For Kill Bill, Robert Richardson decided to fall back on Tarantino’s classic shots. While this may seem like a disadvantage, it actually still conveys the characters intentions and a sense of tension across to the viewer. 

Kill Bill is one of my favourite movies ever thanks to the great fight choreography, outstanding performances and a great plot. I particularly enjoyed the numerous aesthetic decisions made during the fight scenes and Tarantino’s particular violent signature flair. 

**Cinematography:** 2.5/3

**Acting:** 2.4/3

**Plot:** 2.5/3

**Total:** 7.4/9.0 or 82.2%