---
layout: post
title: "Hot Fuzz (2007)"
subtitle: "Fantastic cop-medy!"
tag: Film
date: 2018-11-14
background: https://static.independent.co.uk/s3fs-public/thumbnails/image/2017/06/09/14/hot-fuzz-0.jpg?w968
---
Hot Fuzz is an exercise in absurdity. It never takes itself too seriously and that leads to some great comedic moments. The cinematography does an amazing job of conveying character emotions as well as conveying the importance of some story elements. The acting isn’t great as some of the actors just play their characters in such an obvious way that there is no feeling of subtlety. The plot also lacks nuance, however, this actually contributes to the movie as the movie is supposed to be balls-out hilarious.

Hot Fuzz follows city cop Nicholas Angel, who is relocated to the country for “being too good at his job” and for “not being a team player by being too good at his job”. However, something sinister is afoot in the country. Nicholas has to solve the crime, together with his country-bumpkin partner before it is too late. Hot Fuzz’s plot may seem cliche at first and isn’t very engaging, however, it does get a lot better towards the end.

The cinematography in Hot Fuzz is absolutely delightful. All the shots are framed with care and the editing of said shots is amazing. However, some of the action-packed scenes feel like they were edited without care for the viewer’s eyes as some of the scenes were quite confusing. The quick cuts do a great job of advancing the plot quickly and efficiently, although sometimes these edits felt way too long. The transitions are creative and fit in well with the plot.

Simon Pegg and Nick Frost have such a unique chemistry and I can see why Edgar Wright likes featuring them in his movies. They feel like real best friends(something that I touched on in my Shaun of the Dead review). However, this isn’t the best fit for this particular movie because the characters that they both play are not friends at the start of the movie but instead grow to like each other.

Hot Fuzz is a worthy successor to Shaun of the Dead even if it sometimes feels like the same movie. Although this movie is supposed to be a spoof of other action movies, it somehow manages to overtake them and become the best action movie!

**Cinematography:** 2.4/3

**Acting:** 2/3

**Plot:** 1.7/3

**Total:** 6.1/9.0 or 67.7%