---
layout: post
title: "Scott Pilgrim vs The World (2010)"
subtitle: "Beautiful comic book aesthetic!"
tag: Film
date: 2018-11-17
background: https://whatmovieshouldiwatchtonight.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/scott-pigram-vs-the-world2-1280x720.jpg
---
Scott Pilgrim vs. the World embraces its comic book aesthetic whole-heartedly. The entire movie feels like one giant smash cut and this makes for a refreshing change of pace, especially when compared to it’s longer counterparts. Michael Cera embodies the character of Scott Pilgrim, playing him with the awkwardness that is one of Scott’s defining traits. Edgar Wright’s visual aesthetic really meshes well with this film.

Scott Pilgrim is a bass-guitarist for a rock band and is currently dating a girl that is still in high-school(she is also Asian, although I am not too sure why this is emphasised upon in the movie). He then meets the girl of his dreams(literally in his dreams), and decides to pursue/stalk her, only to find out that to date her, he has to defeat seven of her “Evil-Ex’s”. While this plot may seem cliche, it plays out in an interesting way, with an additional layer of engagement being added by the comic book aesthetic which it is based on. 

Michael Cera plays Scott Pilgrim with a realistic level of awkwardness and it adds an extra layer of vulnerability to the character, making it so that the audience begins to connect with Scott. Mary Elizabeth Winstead also plays Ramona well. Both Winstead and Cera have a great chemistry and Cera’s awkwardness really comes into play at the end of the movie when he is explaining himself to both the girls. 

This movie has a great visual style. Every shot is framed just like it would be in the comic(look at some comparison shots online).  However, some parts of the movie may be quite jarring to people who are not familiar with the work of Edgar Wright as some scene transitions are done while still focusing on the main character. The reason I say this may be jarring is that some scene changes aren’t very visible, and as such the viewer may be left feeling disoriented.

Scott Pilgrim vs. The World is the movie that every video game and comic book movie should aim to be. It integrates comic-book/video-game tropes seamlessly, so seamlessly in fact, that the casual viewer may not even notice it and although they will finish the movie feeling great, it is the viewer with a keen eye that will be left with a sense of euphoria once they finish the movie.

**Cinematography:** 2.4/3

**Acting:** 2.1/3

**Plot:** 2/3

**Total:** 6.5/9.0 or 72.2%