---
layout: post
title: "Django (1966)"
subtitle: "Horrible dubbing ruined the entire movie!"
tag: Film
date: 2018-11-02
background: https://m.media-amazon.com/images/M/MV5BY2FiNjU5MTEtZmRmMC00MTk0LTg1YjItZTJhMjgxYmMwM2Y1XkEyXkFqcGdeQXVyMjUyNDk2ODc@._V1_.jpg
---
I made a mistake while watching Django. Instead of choosing to watch the Italian version with subtitles, I instead(accidentally) chose to watch the version with English dubbed over. Not only is the choice of voice actors horrible(they all sound like Texan All-Americans), but the lines are also not the same as they are in the original Italian version. This is because the lines that are said by the English actors are literal translations of what is said by the Italian actors. The cinematography in Django is smooth with a couple of hitches along the way. The character of Django is such a cool badass that the audience actually roots for him and the ending of the movie is so satisfying.

Django is set on the border between Mexico and USA years after the Civil War has ended. Django, who is a drifter, seeks out revenge on the Ku-Klux Klan after they whip a mixed-race prostitute. 

The dubbing in Django is absolutely horrible. The voice actors do not convey any sense of emotion in any way at all. However, Franco Nero’s facial expressions still manage to get across the emotions that his character is experiencing, albeit in a limited manner. However, Loredana Nusciak’s character does not have enough of a rapport with Nero for the romantic subplot to actually work.

The cinematography in Django is calm but some of the editing can be a little jarring. I particularly enjoyed how there were a lot of long takes during which the camera was almost constantly in motion. Although there were a few scenes where the camera wasn’t very stable and where the cuts to a different take were quite visible, I still really enjoyed watching the actors get a chance to act.

I absolutely love Western movies for one specific reason. In every single Western movie, the main character is an absolute badass and Django is no different. Django’s character is insanely cool and there is a lot of meta-analyses that could be done about this character and why he carries the coffin.

**Cinematography:** 2.2/3

**Acting:** 2.1/3

**Plot:** 2.2/3

**Total:** 6.5/9.0 or 72.2%