---
layout: post
title: "Goosebumps (2018)"
subtitle: "Aimed at kids under 12, anyone else will feel unwelcome"
tag: Film
date: 2018-10-27
background: https://pmcvariety.files.wordpress.com/2018/10/goosebumps-22.jpg?w=1000
---
Goosebumps 2 is more of a cringe-fest than a scare-fest. It lacks any creativity and instead sticks to your typical “scary” Halloween cliches. The movie also feels like it tries, and fails, to mash Ghostbusters, Chucky and It together into one “convenient” package. Most of the child actors have talent. However, the movie fails to utilise this talent due to a script that ditches emotional or scary moments, instead choosing to have funny moments, to appeal to children of a young age.

The scares in Goosebumps are all bark and no bite. Instead, it forsakes the scares to enrapture little children. Sadly, it fails to enrapture anybody of any other age group. The dialogue can be funny at some times but never tries to deal with any of the character’s feelings. There are also some subplots that are not brought to a close and parts of the movie are quite predictable. 

The actors all have previous experience in the movie/tv industry. Caleel Harris, who has acted in Castle Rock and Think Like A Man, is limited by his cliched role of “friend who stands up for his other friend”. Madison Iseman, mainly known for her role in Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle, is restricted by her role as “that high-school girl who doesn’t like her little brother”. All the main characters and their respective actors are all being restricted by their stereotypes. 

The first few shots are smooth and serene but include heavy, heavy doses of foreshadowing. The cinematography was good as it managed to highlight the doll without making it too CGI-ed. There are also some issues with the editing, as there are some shots which lack continuity from the previous shot.

I didn’t really enjoy Goosebumps because it lacked a general direction for the plot to move towards. The movie didn’t explore any of the interesting subplots that could have possibly been explored. It also didn’t really utilise any of their actors to their full potential. By choosing to only attract little kids, this movie has kind of alienated anybody above the age of twelve. It is also saddening how Jack Black did not get a larger role.

**Cinematography:** 1.5/3

**Acting:** 1.6/3

**Plot:** 1.2/3

**Total:** 4.3/9.0 or 47%