---
layout: post
title: "The World's End (2013)"
subtitle: "The quest for a pint never ends!"
tag: Film
date: 2018-11-21
background: http://www.filmblerg.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/The-Worlds-End.jpg
---
The World’s End puts a different spin on the typical Science Fiction movie by putting a comedic British spin on it. This combination may seem like a monstrosity, but it fits together perfectly with Edgar Wright’s visual style and cinematic capabilities. The cinematography and editing are, once again, on point and the film never slows down, not even for a second. The action scenes are over-the-top but fit the mood of the movie.

The story follows Gary King, known as The King, as he regroups with his college friends over 20 or so years to have another crack at the legendary Golden Mile. The Golden Mile is a pub crawl, that entails drinking a pint in every pub in a small town called Newhaven. Little does Gary know, that not everything is as it seems on the face of the small town. Although the story may be unpredictable, it never lets up and is entertaining all the way through. Edgar Wright is known for adding little doses of British comedy, to what is usually thought of as an American genre.

Edgar Wright is well known for using cinematography effectively in his movies and The World’s End is no different. The transitions between scenes are smooth and keep the audience engaged, while the camerawork conveys the hilarity of the situation as well as portraying the character’s emotions.

Simon Pegg’s portrayal of Gary King is almost flawless. His performance of “The King”  is what allows the audience to relate to the character. Pegg’s character is not the only character that feels realistic and human, in fact, all of the character’s feel that way and their respective actors play them in a way that allows us to connect with the characters on an emotional level. 

The World’s End is a great mix of comedy and seriousness. It manages to hit all the correct emotional notes while keeping things light and upbeat with the insanity of the situation that the characters find themselves in. Because the plot is unpredictable, the viewer will be kept engaged and entertain all throughout the movie. I particularly enjoyed how two completely different genres were mashed together and how the result was a movie as enjoyable as this one.

**Cinematography:** 2.3/3

**Acting:** 2.1/3

**Plot:** 2/3

**Total:** 6.4/9.0 or 71.1%