---
layout: post
title: "Jackie Brown (1997)"
subtitle: "Tarantino's third movie is more mature than the rest of his filmography"
tag: Film
date: 2018-10-25
background: https://i2.wp.com/vaguevisages.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/jackie-brown-movie-three.png?resize=1024%2C531&ssl=1
---
Jackie Brown is one of the only Tarantino movies that is not built upon an original idea from him. Instead, it is based on Elmore Leonard’s Rum Punch. While the movie still contains many classic Tarantinoisms such as slick cinematography and a cool soundtrack. This movie was Tarantino’s first time collaborating with cinematographer Guillermo Navarro(Night at the Museum, Hellboy). This movie also boasts a group of well-known actors, with Pam Grier playing the lead, and Robert De Niro starring in a relatively minor role. Samuel L Jackson also returns to the Tarantino fold to play Ordell.

The film plays out like a heist movie. Pam Grier plays a middle-aged flight attendant who gets caught transporting an arms dealer’s dirty money. After getting caught in the crossfire, she decides to scam both the cops and the arms dealer. Even though this movie may just be a loose adaptation of a book, Tarantino has made this movie seem reminiscent of the 70s Blaxploitation movies.

The actors all give a set of solid performances. Grier(Foxy Brown) in particular gives a strong performance as the female lead in the movie. Samuel L Jackson delivers his lines with a distinct throwback to Pulp Fiction as I believe that the two characters are very similar. Robert De Niro’s character was provided as comic relief, although the character does have an important role in the later stages of the movie. 

Guillermo Navarro is a well-known cinematographer and for good reason. The long takes in this movie are smooth, even though the camera is almost constantly in motion. As I have stated before in my other reviews of Tarantino movies, these long takes give the actors time to act and to get into the groove of playing their respective characters.

Even though this Tarantino movie is the underdog when compared to his other movies, it is still a highly enjoyable film. I particularly enjoyed the numerous Tarantinoisms that were inserted into the movie.

**Cinematography:** 2.1/3

**Acting:** 2/3

**Plot:** 1.8/3

**Total:** 5.9/9.0 or 65.5%