---
layout: post
title: "The Godfather (1972)"
subtitle: "CLASSIC!"
tag: Film
date: 2018-12-15
background: https://www.broadway.org.uk/sites/default/files/styles/banner_crop/public/2019-07/the-godfather-banner-min.jpg?h=824a3082&itok=0RLGpZBp
---
The Godfather is a movie that gets everything right. Not only does it have an interesting premise that is executed perfectly, but it also contains riveting performances by Marlon Brando and Al Pacino. The camerawork in this movie is exceptional as it utilises screen space and shot framing to convey meaning and story points to the audience without ever explicitly stating these aforementioned plot points to the viewer. The plot spans over multiple years and contains a series of mini-climaxes to keep the audience entertained and engaged all up to the epic finale.

The Godfather follows Vito Corleone, an aging crime lord who gets embroiled in a five-way gang war over the trade of narcotics in New York City and his son Michael Corleone. The character arcs in this movie are fantastic and it is amazing to see how the movie reintegrates characters that are only given a brief amount of screentime into pivotal roles. The film also does not glamourise the world of organised crime. Instead, it chooses to view the criminal underworld through an emotional lens by focusing on the family aspect of the Mafia.

Marlon Brando’s performance of Vito Corleone is perfect. He uses microexpressions(such as the twitching of his bottom lip) to convey his emotions to the audience. He also speaks in a soft, raspy voice that gives the audience the impression that his character is a powerful one and makes the viewer have to lean in to hear him speak. Al Pacino also portrays Michael in an engaging manner, presenting the character as a flawed human being. It is also interesting to see his character evolve and change throughout the movie and Al Pacino reflects that in his performance of Michael Corleone.

The opening shot of the Godfather tells you everything you need to know about the exceptional cinematography in this movie. The lighting is used perfectly to elevate tension while the shot framing is used to tell us(the audience) where we are and what is happening. Crossfades are utilised to show a change in a time and location while also reminding us of how these scenes are related to one another.

The Godfather is a classic that is backed by exceptional performances and a wonderful plot that keeps the audience engaged through its 177-minute runtime.

**Cinematography:** 2.5/3

**Acting:** 2.5/3

**Plot:** 2.5/3

**Total:** 7.5/9.0 or 83.3%