---
layout: post
title: "The Matrix (1999)"
subtitle: "Amazing VFX + Keanu-man!"
tag: Film
date: 2018-11-18
background: https://i.ytimg.com/vi/OM0tSTEQCQA/maxresdefault.jpg
---
Despite being an action movie, The Matrix has a story that feels a little cliched, but still manages to make the viewer question their own existence. The fight scenes are absolutely amazing and although the visual effects seem a little dated, I am sure that at the time they would have seemed gorgeous. I was surprised to find out that this movie came out in 1999(almost 19 years before the time of writing) because even though the visuals feel dated, they still managed to surpass some of the visuals in newer, more recent movies. 

The Matrix follows elite computer hacker Neo as he learns the true nature of his reality and about his role in the war against the machines from an enigmatic rebel who goes by the name of Morpheus. The plot is riddled with cliches, however, the method by which the plot is revealed to the viewer is highly effective. However, I believe that the subplot which explored the romance between Trinity and Neo felt slightly underdeveloped. I also enjoyed how by using cinematography and visual effects were used effectively and in the latter case, sparingly.

The cinematography in the Matrix conveys the difference between the real world and the fake one. There are very clear differences that are set out quite early in the film but are almost unnoticeable. I also enjoyed how the visual effects were used in coordination with practical effects as this lends the film an additional feeling of reality, even though the things that are occurring onscreen could not possibly happen in real life.

Keanu Reeves is well suited to the role of Neo and his performance of the character continues throughout most of the movie. However, the chemistry between Reeves and female lead, Carrie Anne-Moss seems to be lacking something crucial. Laurence Fishburne portrays Morpheus in a stern manner. This is good because Neo is treated as Morpheus’s protege almost up till the end of the movie.

The Matrix contained some of the most electrifying fight scenes I have ever watched, however, some of the punches seemed to lack any feeling of damage at all. All in all, The Matrix was an intense and mind boggling movie which made me question the reality that I live in.

**Cinematography:** 2.4/3

**Acting:** 2.2/3

**Plot:** 2.3/3

**Total:** 6.8/9.0 or 75.5%