---
layout: post
title: "John Wick (2014)"
subtitle: "One of the most entertaining action movies I've watched in a long, long time"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-04
background: https://gamespot1.cbsistatic.com/uploads/original/1591/15918215/3523383-john%20wick.jpg
---
John Wick is a lean, mean killin’ machine. And I don’t just mean the character. Directors Chad Stahelski and David Leitch have managed to cram a lot of action into a lean one hundred and one-minute package. The fight scenes are beautifully choreographed and the editing isn’t a mess either. Keanu Reeves’s performance of John Wick himself is good but he doesn’t really get a chance to show much emotion due to the action-heavy story.

John Wick is basically a revenge story. It follows ex-hitman John Wick who has retired from the business after getting married. After some time, she dies from a terminal illness. A few days later, some mobsters break into his house, kill his puppy which was a gift from his wife and also steals his car. John Wick investigates and finds out that the lead mobster was the son of Viggo, his previous employer. He decides to take down the entire mob. That is literally the entire story. The only bit of character building we see is at the start of the movie when his wife dies and through the subsequent mini-flashbacks to his past. However, the way that the world is slowly built up and the way that different parts of this world are shown to us through the plot is really well executed.

Keanu Reeves delivers a nuanced emotional performance in the setup phase of the film and this pops up here and there throughout the film. However, the supporting cast fleshes out this movie and helps the world-building become apparent. For example, Willem Dafoe delivers a great performance as Marcus(his last name is never mentioned) and even though his relation to Wick is never explained, this quickly becomes apparent through Dafoe’s performance.

There is a very clear distinction between Wick’s retired life and his return to the fold. This distinction is expressed very clearly through the camera work and cinematography. In John Wick’s retired life, we see a smaller range of colours being used, with most of the colours being tinged with grey. As Wick slowly begins to return to the life, we start seeing scenes that are tinged with neon colours as they slowly become grittier. There is also no denying that the fight scenes are expertly choreographed and edited.

**Cinematography:** 2.4/3

**Acting:** 2.1/3

**Plot:** 1.9/3

**Total:** 6.4/9.0 or 71.1%