---
layout: post
title: "Robocop (1987)"
subtitle: "Action gold combines smart storytelling, humour and classic CG!"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-10
background: https://i0.wp.com/www.qwipster.net/wp-content/uploads/2006/02/robocop.jpg?fit=1200%2C675
---
Robocop may sound cheesy, but look past the name and you will find a highly interesting science-fiction action movie. These two genres blend well under Paul Verhoeven’s meticulous and humorous hand. Smart decisions are made by cinematographer Jost Vacano when showing us shots from Robocop’s point-of-view while the plot of Robocop is essentially stolen from every superhero movie that has ever been made and follows a very basic plotline that is loaded with black humour and satire. Peter Weller’s performance of Robocop isn’t very interesting after he becomes Robocop due to most of his face and body being obscured and having limited movement. However, once the mask is off, Weller plays the character in a more subtle manner.

Robocop is set in a future version of Detroit, where the police force has been sold to a  private corporation known as OCP or Omni Consumer Products. A new cop has been transferred to the force and ends up dying during his first piece of investigation. However, OCP steals his dead corpse and makes him a cyborg police officer against his will. Robocop manages to raise interesting points about the ethics and morality of OCP’s decision to resurrect him while also loading the movie with lots of dark humour and satire.

Peter Weller lends Robocop a much-needed human side. The reason I say much needed is due to the fact that because Robocop is nearly invincible, the audience may find it hard to connect with him, an issue that is still being grappled with by Superman’s writers. However, Weller leans into Robocop’s humorous side and this allows the audience to identify and root for Robocop. Kurtwood Smith’s performance of the main villain, Clarence Boddicker, is hilarious and yet darkly sick at the same time and this leads to some very memorable moments.

The cinematography in Robocop is smart and inventive. The shots from Robocop’s point of view are actually coordinated to his head movements which gives the audience a sense of immersion and connection to Robocop. The special effects used for ED 209 are obviously fake(it was only made in 1987 after all) and Robocop’s costume looks a little too chunky and clunky. However, the ads that are dispersed through the movie are hilarious while the news flashes that are also peppered through the movie offer us a different point of view of Robocop’s actions and how they impact society.

**Cinematography:** 2.1/3

**Acting:** 2/3

**Plot:** 2.1/3

**Total:** 6.2/9.0 or 68.8%