---
layout: post
title: "Unbreakable (2000)"
subtitle: "Dark superhero movie throws a predictable twist in our face"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-24
background: https://m.media-amazon.com/images/M/MV5BMjI1MDg3MTEwMV5BMl5BanBnXkFtZTcwOTE5Mzg0OQ@@._V1_SY1000_SX1500_AL_.jpg
---
**SPOILERS FOR UNBREAKABLE FOLLOW. IF YOU HAVEN'T WATCHED IT YET, I RECOMMEND THAT YOU TURN BACK NOW.**

Unbreakable is shot and edited beautifully. Its story is told in a thrilling manner that remains gripping all throughout even if the plot twist at the end isn't much of a twist.  However, the way that the villain is introduced is inventive, as he is not antagonised until the very end. Up until the end of the movie, we believe in what he is saying, as he does not particularly demonstrate any characteristics that make him unlikable. Samuel L. Jackson's performance of Mr Glass is convincing and as a result, makes his character seem all the more psychotic(as revealed by the ending).

Unbreakable follows a security guard by the name of David Dunn, who finds mysteriously finds himself the sole survivor of a train crash. Suddenly, a man by the name of Elijah Price(who suffers from brittle bones disease and is obsessed with comic books), contacts Dunn and offers an explanation for Dunn's survival. Dunn, he says, is a superhero who is completely invulnerable to any type of physical damage. Comic books generally have a three-part story(origin, some sort of struggle, and finally, the battle against their arch-enemy). For Mr Glass, M. Night Shyamalan decides to focus on the origin. He tells a story that is firmly rooted in the real world. Dunn is a character that is surrounded by burdens, flaws and issues. The movie is a very slow build-up, with most of the action and information being released to the audience through the dialogue.

Samuel L. Jackson's performance of Mr Glass is quietly menacing because he portrays his character in a soft-spoken, placid manner. He also portrays the character with a sort of quiet determination to find out whether David is actually a superhero. Bruce Willis also helps to ground the movie into reality because he looks so average. 

The cinematography in Unbreakable is absolutely stunning. The shots are framed through doorways, windows and curtains, similar to the way that panels are framed in comic books. Every shot is loaded with symbolism and colours are used well to represent good and evil. I also enjoyed how cinematographer Eduardo Serra uses long takes to great effect.

**Cinematography:** 2.3/3

**Acting:** 2.1/3

**Plot:** 2.3/3

**Total:** 6.8/9.0 or 75.5%