---
layout: post
title: "Replicas (2018)"
subtitle: "Nonsensical bullshit at its finest!"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-22
background: https://a.ltrbxd.com/resized/sm/upload/am/1d/6y/in/replicas-1200-1200-675-675-crop-000000.jpg?k=5b62d4c920
---
Replicas is a movie that throws a bunch of nonsensical bullshit in our face and expects us to go along for the ride without even noticing. We do notice, but we go along with the ride anyway, because we try our hardest to look past the bullshit in the hope that the movie eventually gets better. It does, but only in the final 30 or so minutes. The movie spends most of its 107-minute runtime dwindling on some deep ethical issues, that are not given the serious look-over that they deserve. Instead, we are "treated" to an almost consistent flow of inconsistent characterisation. The characters are sad, and the next second they are cracking jokes again. Keanu Reeves also plays the character in this way, and as a result, the movie feels as if it is all over the place.

Replicas has such an interesting premise but sadly, as with most movies with interesting premises, it fails to deliver it to the audience. You would not be forgiven for thinking that this movie would treat serious ethical issues that face the world today with the respect that it deserves. Instead, we are given a messy, unkempt package that fails to do anything even remotely interesting with its premise. Personally, I would have enjoyed this movie more if it had focused expanded more upon the ending,  shortened the beginning and given more importance towards the morality of the main character's decision.

Not even the best actor in the world could give Professor William a subtle and nuanced performance, due to the lazy dialogue that has been written for his character. Not only is it wildly inconsistent, but it also lacks any sense of coherence at all. It feels like they got a separate writer to write each and every line for this movie. William also makes some stupid decisions and his reasoning is never explained and we are expected to understand his thought process. I am all for stupid character decisions, as long as it is in the character's respective character profile to do so.

The CGI in Replicas looks like something straight out of the 2000s. The robot looks and behaves too robotically for a company that plans to contract these robots out. The cinematographer has also made no distinction between the cloned humans and their previous selves. He also seems to fall back on using Dutch Tilts or a canted shot even when the situation does not really call for it.

Replicas isn't an amazing movie. It's not even a good one. It could have been if the script had been finetuned and rewritten to focus more on the morally and ethically ambiguous decisions that the main characters make.

**Cinematography:** 1.2/3

**Acting:** 1.4/3

**Plot:** 1.5/3

**Total:** 5.1/9.0 or 56.6%