---
layout: post
title: "Footloose (1984)"
subtitle: "So much fun, so little plot"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-07
background: https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-q4rdw8tQ004/XCkqsiBEeEI/AAAAAAAAL6I/e4H77bZ4S_whdBXGJFKLLZc6NBA0WmfUwCKgBGAs/s1600/5.jpg
---
Footloose is a hell of a lot of fun. However, under this fun, there is a layer of seriousness, although this is never really pointed out or exploited in an emotional way. John Lithgow, who plays the main “villain” in Footloose delivers a strong performance, during which the audience can clearly see the conflict within him growing over the course of the movie. The dance scenes are reminiscent of the MTV era, utilising quick cuts and flashing lights a lot.

Footloose follows Ren McCormack, a rebel with a cause, after he moves to a small town named Bomont. In Bomont, dancing and rock music has been made illegal. In a desperate effort to try and fit in with the other kids as well as make an impact, Ren tries to organise a senior prom with the help of his girlfriend Ariel and his best friend Willard. The only thing that stands between Ren and the dance is Ariel’s dad, Reverend Shaw Moore. Although the plot is riddled with cliches, the story is written in a fun and light manner and it never gets too serious. 

Footloose’s best character(in terms of writing) is easily the main antagonist, Reverend Shaw Moore who is played by John Lithgow, an actor known for playing comedic roles. Lithgow demonstrates this conflicted character so well using his facial expressions. The character has been written to seem as if he is a bad person, however, Lithgow’s performance allows us as the audience to identify with this character on an emotional level even though this character seems so closed off from his emotions.

The cinematography in Footloose is average. Nothing out-of-the-box has been done, other than a few interesting lighting choices. In terms of editing, the dance scenes looked as if they had been ripped straight from an MTV music video. I did not enjoy how some shots were repeated a number of times and for a movie based around music, I am quite disappointed that the editing was not done more creatively(i.e. editing to the beat). However, the dance choreography is stellar, just as expected.

**Cinematography:** 2/3

**Acting:** 2.2/3

**Plot:** 2/3

**Total:** 6.2/9.0 or 68.8%