---
layout: post
title: "Indian (1996)"
subtitle: "Stunning dual performance and a fantastic plot!"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-11
background: https://m.media-amazon.com/images/M/MV5BNzZmMDA5ZDUtMTU4Yy00ZjVlLWE3MWEtZDM1MmI4ZTk0NTVmXkEyXkFqcGdeQXVyOTIzODUxMjk@._V1_SY1000_CR0,0,1472,1000_AL_.jpg
---
Indian boasts a stunning dual performance from actor Kamal Hassan and a plot that comments on the corrupt political landscape of India. Sadly, the ending is unsatisfactory, as it seems that the filmmakers are gunning for a sequel to a movie that needs no sequel(unnecessary sequelitis). The cinematography in Indian is decent, with many of the shots being framed in a particularly symbolic manner. The makeup artists have done a great job at aging and de-aging certain actors.

Indian follows an elderly war veteran, who decides to teach the corrupt officials who take bribes a lesson. He targets high government officials and assassinates them. He will clean up India at any cost. The story does have it's emotional beats, all of which are well executed and the characters are also developed in an interesting manner. However, the movie’s ending was unsatisfactory and instead of being the happy ending that we expect, the movie should have gone for a more ironic ending.

Kamal Hassan is a very talented actor and he showcases his talent in Indian. Not only does he play two roles, but he plays them all in very different ways. As such, it was almost impossible to connect the two characters together. When Kamal Hassan is playing Indian, he stoops his back a little, but still plays the character with a lot of pride. However, when Hassan is playing Chandru, he plays the character in a surefire and cocky manner. 

The cinematography in Indian is not particularly eye-catching, however, there are many shots throughout the film that are interestingly framed. However, most of the dance scenes in Indian are not used to further the plot and this is very disappointing. They are edited, well but are still inconsistent with the plot. Furthermore, some of the dance moves are not synced to the beat which gives the film a jarring feel. There are some scenes in which Kamal Hassan is required to act in both roles and for these scenes, there is a visible difference between the lighting for both characters.

**Cinematography:** 2.1/3

**Acting:** 2.3/3

**Plot:** 2/3

**Total:** 6.4/9.0 or 71.1%