---
layout: post
title: "Eighth Grade (2018)"
subtitle: "Elsie Fisher steals the show in Bo Burnham's directorial debut"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-12
background: https://cdn.vox-cdn.com/thumbor/RN_wuS6XFGYM1ktuHvLTx9WXBug=/0x0:1430x774/1200x800/filters:focal(601x273:829x501)/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_image/image/60361217/Screen_Shot_2018_07_13_at_9.32.22_AM.0.png
---
Around 5 minutes into Eighth Grade, I almost gave up after hearing the word “lit” and seeing someone dab. I just assumed that this movie was going to become an artifact that demonstrates how dumb we were in 2018. But I persevered and found a beautifully written movie that provides the audience with a three-dimensional character(in the form of Kayla Day) and makes it easy for us to resonate with that character. Bo Burnham accomplished this by writing Kayla with issues, flaws, emotions and feelings. Elsie Fisher understands this and she just plays Kayla as if she(Kayla) is a real person that you could bump into on the street. Josh Hamilton, who plays Kayla’s dad, also delivers a solid performance that grows over the course of the movie and ends up with a satisfying conclusion to his arc.

Eighth Grade follows Kayla Day, a girl who is in her last week of Eighth Grade as she experiences all the ups and downs of life in middle school. Bo Burnham has written the story so that Kayla’s character goes through many conflicts over the course of the story, not just one. There is no main conflict with another human being, instead, the conflict here focuses on Kayla battling against herself. Kayla’s dad, Mark is also written well, and not in a cliched manner. Kayla’s dad doesn’t want to fight with her. Instead, his main aim is simply to interact with her.

Elsie Fisher’s performance of Kayla is perfect. Not only does she portray the character like a real teenager, but she takes all of Kayla’s insecurities and really leans into how it would feel to be Kayla. Josh Hamilton also delivers a solid performance of Mark and plays the character so subtly that the audience may not even notice the little details and thought that he puts into playing the character.

Most of the scenes in Eighth Grade are lit naturally and, while this works in select scenes, it just doesn’t work for the majority of the movie and it just feels amateurish. Some of the shots that utilise movement are coordinated well, especially the tracking shot during the pool party. Music and sound are utilised effectively to create tension or to demonstrate an important point to the audience.

**Cinematography:** 1.9/3

**Acting:** 2.4/3

**Plot:** 2.4/3

**Total:** 6.7/9.0 or 74.4%