---
layout: post
title: "First Man (2018)"
subtitle: "Fantastic performance from Ryan Gosling"
tag: Film
date: 2019-02-19
background: https://m.media-amazon.com/images/M/MV5BMzRkMzQ3ZGQtZDE3Ny00ZjIzLWIwODctM2UwZGM2MjkxNGZiXkEyXkFqcGdeQXRodW1ibmFpbC1pbml0aWFsaXplcg@@._V1_.jpg
---
First Man isn't particularly innovative or engaging until the moon landing scene. Ryan Gosling's astounding performance still cannot make up for atrociously shaky camerawork and an uninteresting plot. It feels bogged down because it does not ever really set the characters up and as a result, they feel shallow and uninteresting. This also ruins emotional moments. The score of First Man, however, is beautiful and awe-inspiring (especially during the moon landing scene) and silence is used just as effectively as music. 

First Man is a biography of Neil Armstrong’s life experience as the First Man on the moon. It is surprisingly accurate (according to my research) unlike other movies that are apparently based on “true stories”. This accuracy, however, does not seem to have served the movie well, because Armstrong is a bit of an introvert. He doesn’t like to cause a fuss, even over important things (such as the death of his daughter). Instead, he prefers to grieve in private. This makes the “emotional” scenes in the movie seem less emotional because he isn’t supposed to display emotion. The movie also has a relatively long runtime (141 minutes) which could have been shortened (a little bit).

Despite the disappointing plot, Ryan Gosling’s performance of Neil Armstrong is nuanced and emotional (again, it's hard to do that because of Armstrong’s character, Gosling does the best he can). Most of the other characters just seem flat because they are not played with enough feeling, especially when the scene requires it.

Shaky-cam shots. I hate shaky-cam shots. First Man uses a lot of shaky-cam shots, even when it is completely unnecessary. These shots do not just bob up and down slowly, they jerk around the screen like a film shot by a 6th grader. I do understand why Linus Sandgren wants to replicate the feeling of a documentary but this is too much. On the other hand, the moon landing sequence which is shot using IMAX camera is beautiful, especially since the score replicates the awe-inspiring feel of that scene.

**Cinematography:** 2.1/3

**Acting:** 2.4/3

**Plot:** 2.2/3

**Total:** 6.5/9.0 or 72.2%