---
layout: post
title: "96 (2018)"
subtitle: "the journey, not the outcome"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-15
background: https://m.media-amazon.com/images/M/MV5BZjRmYzk0NzMtMzQ4Zi00YmQ4LTlkOTUtNTY1ZTcxZDg1ZWUzXkEyXkFqcGdeQXVyMzYxOTQ3MDg@._V1_SY1000_CR0,0,1422,1000_AL_.jpg
---
96 is all about the journey and not about the outcome. The journey that this movie takes us on is amazing and the amount of growth in the characters that we see over the course of this movie is unprecedented. The ending, although inevitable, is still unexpected and will definitely come as shock to people who expect a happy ending. The cinematography in 96 is vibrant and beautifully shot by Mahediran Jayaraju and N. Shanmuga Sundaram. I particularly enjoyed how the shots were framed and how fade-to-black’s were used to great effect.

96 follows a travel photographer, named K. Ramachandran who gets nostalgic after he visits his old high school. He decides to organise a reunion. During the reunion, he meets his old high school crush, only to find that she is already married. The past relationships of the main characters are relayed to us through flashbacks, and rather than having the flashbacks be narrated to the audience, C. Prem Kumar, simply lets the actions of the characters speak for themselves. I do not want to ruin the ending, so instead, I shall just say that it is heart-wrenching and it will not be what you expect at all.

Vijay Senupathi and Trisha Krishnan have a very interesting dynamic and the way that they play off each other is subtle and almost unnoticeable. However, unnoticeable these performances might be, they impact the movie so much that the ending is made all the more effective and gut-punching. 

96 uses lush and vibrant cinematography. Because Ram(the main character) is a travel photographer, a lot of the earlier shots in the movie focus on nature, while later on in the movie, many of the shots begin focusing on drawing parallels between the past and the present. Editor R. Govindaraj has used fade outs exceptionally, although I believe that the impact on the audience would be larger had the fade-outs been punctuated by some sort of sound effect. Music is also used effectively in 96 to advance the plot and is utilised as a score, rather than as a reason to have a dance scene.

**Cinematography:** 2.5/3

**Acting:** 2.1/3

**Plot:** 2.4/3

**Total:** 7/9.0 or 77.7%