---
layout: post
title: "Jack Reacher (2012)"
subtitle: "Thrilling thriller!"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-06
background: https://www.geeksandgamers.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/jack-reacher-1.jpg
---
Jack Reacher plays out more like a suspenseful crime drama than an action movie. The cinematography is just short of stellar and the editing is even better. Tom Cruise’s performance of Reacher is smart and intelligent, as he plays the character in a charismatic way portraying the character as a driving force that will never stop. However, Rosamund Pike plays her character with almost no expression or inflection in her voice when she delivers her lines.

Jack Reacher is based on a book called One Shot by Lee Child. The film begins with a sniper, taking out five civilians with seemingly no rhyme nor reason. A single suspect is arrested and all the evidence seems to point to him. During questioning, the suspect says nothing and asks for the cops to bring in Jack Reacher. Reacher, an ex-army investigator, agrees to help defence attorney Helen Rodin to help keep her client off death row. As Reacher delves deeper into his investigation, the guilt of the suspect becomes less and less clear. The plot unfolds in an interesting manner although I believe that if the filmmakers had not revealed the killer’s identity in the first few minutes they could have extended this feeling of suspense for a while longer. That is not to say that the movie is unsuspenseful, quite the opposite in fact. Christopher McQuarrie uses uncertainty to a great extent to convey a feeling of suspense, something which is reflected in the cinematography as well.

Tom Cruise fittingly portrays the character of Jack Reacher in a Sherlock Holmes-esque way. Rosamund Pike, on the other hand, is completely expressionless and due to this, the stakes don’t feel as high in the final act. Werner Herzog’s performance of the villain is menacing and because the lines are well-written, this bolsters the overall quality of the performance.

The fight choreography in Jack Reacher feels uninspired and as such the quality of such sequences is reduced, even though the camerawork in aforementioned scenes are decent. The editing is pretty darn good as evidenced by the entirety of the opening scene. 

**Cinematography:** 2.2/3

**Acting:** 1.9/3

**Plot:** 2.2/3

**Total:** 6.3/9.0 or 70%