---
layout: post
title: "Roma (2018)"
subtitle: "art? art."
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-08
background: https://www.slantmagazine.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/roma-3.jpg
---
I love watching movies that have been filmed in black and white. This is purely just my opinion, but movies in black and white provide an opportunity for the audience to fill in the colours using their imagination. Roma is filmed in black and white by Alfonso Cuaron who is known for making movies such as Gravity. The choice of using black and white pays homage to the past rather than forcing the movie to be too rooted in the past to the point where the movie looks vintage. 

Roma follows a domestic maid named Cleo in the early 70s. She works for a middle-class white family in Mexico. Suddenly, one day, she finds out that she is pregnant. However, the father of the child refuses to believe that he is the father and Cleo is on her own. The story is extremely grounded and stays grounded throughout the film. It explores the story through an intimate and heartfelt lens. However, it takes a while for the film to exhibit any signs of conflict(almost one hour), but this is because the film needs to introduce and set up its entire cast of characters.

Alfonso Cuaron decided that on Roma, he was going to work with non-professional actors and this has paid off immensely. Due to the fact that these actors are not professionals, the movie feels more human and this adds to the plots already very down-to-earth feel. Yalitza Aparicio plays Cleo so well that the brutal ending is rendered even more emotionally striking.

Roma’s cinematography is simple but striking. Alfonso Cuaron who plays the role of writer, director, cinematographer, producer as well as editor has used camera movement so effectively that it endows the final product a graceful, intimate and shockingly jarring feel. Both sound and silence are used effectively, with silence being used so subtly that the audience may not even notice it.

**Cinematography:** 2.6/3

**Acting:** 2.3/3

**Plot:** 2.3/3

**Total:** 7.2/9.0 or 80%