---
layout: post
title: "Grown Ups 2 (2013)"
subtitle: "Boring, stupid and typical Sandler"
tag: Film
date: 2018-01-06
background: https://i.ytimg.com/vi/neBR6ofHkiY/maxresdefault.jpg
---
Grown Ups 2 believes that just because it crams a bunch of comedy movie veterans into one movie that is poorly written, the movie will be a success. Although the movie was a success revenue-wise, critically, it is well known for being a comedy that is immature and silly. There are many moments that are “snigger-worthy” but that is precisely the problem. All the jokes are only “snigger-worthy” and none of the situations in the movie are particularly memorable. The cinematography isn’t amazing and lacks polish while the editing of the shots lack continuity.

Grown Ups 2 has a plot that is all over the place. It can never seem to decide who the main character is or what the main point of conflict is. There is no depth and there is no emotion. Grown Ups follows Lenny, who moves his family back to his hometown to relax and spend time with his friends. The writing is lazy and mostly just falls back to talking about penises and poop.

Not only does the plot of Grown Ups make it seem like an amateurish effort, but the acting also does not seem human or effortless. The actors are all really tensed and don’t really express themselves. A lot of this movie feels like it was an idea that came up while somebody was drunk or wasted. 

The cinematography in Grown Ups doesn’t feel deliberate enough. There is no meaning or symbolism in how the shots are framed. Instead, Theo Van de Sande, the cinematographer, just frames the shot with the subject at the centre and at eye-level without a second thought. The editing of the shots lacks continuity and as such, the final product feels like a C-movie.

Many comedies fall into the trap of being immature and silly. However, Grown Ups 2 doesn’t just fall into that trap, it ends up overextending as well. The result… is a boring, unfunny comedy where the overall quality of the movie is so low that even the filmmakers don’t care about putting much effort into the movie.

**Cinematography:** 1.4/3

**Acting:** 1.3/3

**Plot:** 1.3/3

**Total:** 4/9.0 or 44.4%