---
layout: post
title: "Bumblebee (2018)"
subtitle: "Nostalgia trip to the 80s"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-04
background: https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-0UORdUSkyao/XBldi-Gn3ZI/AAAAAAAAKBU/TS2TZU0TykQAC3r843q77CKBmSq_lG0mACLcBGAs/s1600/bumblebee.jpg
---
Bumblebee has just beat Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse as one of my favourite movies of 2018. This nostalgia driven adventure isn’t your typical Transformers fare. First off, the action takes a seat so that the storytelling can really shine. However, the action scenes are extremely well done and when the Transformers fight each other it isn’t just a heavily edited mess of metal jumping around on the screen. The robots use slick martial arts moves and the camera follows rather than just using the cut, cut, cut technique. As a result, the fight scenes feel as if they could be replicated by a kid playing with his Transformers toys.

Bumblebee is an Autobot who crashlanded on Earth after escaping a war against the Decepticons on Cybertron. After crashlanding on Earth, he loses his memory during a fight with Agent Burns immediately after crashing. Charlie, a teenager who is looking to buy her own car. She finds a beat-up Volkswagen Beetle in a junkyard and gets it for free. She then finds out that car is Bumblebee. However, by activating the car, she accidentally sends a signal to the Decepticons who track Bumblebee down to Earth. Together with Bumblebee, Charlie must save the world from the Decepticons. I particularly enjoyed how the Christina Hodson actually didn’t just write Charlie as an angsty teen and instead portrayed her as a very human character.

Hailee Steinfeld’s performance of Charlie was just perfect. Her expressions are subtle and nuanced but still obvious enough that the audience knows what she is thinking. Steinfeld and Jorge Lendeborg Jr. (who plays Memo) have great on-screen chemistry and they feel like legitimate human beings that we might bump into on the street. However, I am not too sure I agree with the choice of casting John Cena as the villain. He is emotionless the entire way through, even in the end when he finishes redeeming himself to the audience. He is just expressionless and stony-faced. 

Bumblebee is animated really, really well. Even though he is a robot, the animators have made him capable of showing emotion and depth. As I mentioned earlier, the fight scenes have been expertly choreographed. I also enjoyed how the character designs for all the Transformers have returned to their classic toy forms. There are also a number of long shots that have been beautifully lit and the coastal shots are nicely done.

**Cinematography:** 2.3/3

**Acting:** 2.3/3

**Plot:** 2.5/3

**Total:** 7.1/9.0 or 78.8%