---
layout: post
title: "Mary Poppins (1964)"
subtitle: "Fascinating classic recommended for all ages!"
tag: Film
date: 2018-01-04
background: https://www.whats-on-netflix.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/mary-poppins-netflix-streaming.jpg
---
Mary Poppins is a movie aimed at kids, however, it is a great movie to watch for people of all ages. The morals are inserted into the story as a byproduct of the story rather than as something that had to be crammed in at the last moment. As Dr Seuss said, “Kids can see a moral coming a mile off.”. Julie Andrew and Dick Van Dyke play their respective characters in a light and airy way. My only gripe about this movie is the lack of any actual feeling of conflict.

Mary Poppins begins on Cherry Tree Lane in the home of Mr Banks. One of the nannies has just decided to quit because of the Banks children who are very naughty(although we soon find out that they are not that naughty and it keeps going back and forth like that, the movie is not very explicit on this point). After this nanny has left, the Bank family begins looking for another nanny. The kids decided to write their own advertisement which is promptly ripped into pieces by Mr Banks and thrown on the furnace. The letter magically pieces itself back together and flies out of the chimney and into Mary Poppins hand. The next day, Mary Poppins lands on Cherry Tree Lane, becomes the nanny for both kids and takes them on a series of fantastical adventures. The best part of the plot of Mary Poppins is how the movie feels heartfelt and funny all the way through. However, I do feel as if some of the scenes are way too long and could be trimmed down a little bit.

Julie Andrews performance of Mary Poppins is not subtle or nuanced in any way but that is understandable as this is a movie aimed directly at kids. Dick Van Dyke, who plays Bert, does this too. The performance of the kid actors, namely Karen Dotrice and Matthew Garber are wildly inconsistent and I wasn’t able to decide whether these kids were evil or good. 

Mary Poppins uses animation in some of its live-action scenes, technology which was considered groundbreaking at the time. These sequences are inserted into the movie rather nicely and they fit in well with the plot. I also enjoyed how for many of the scenes the filmmakers decided to use good old-fashioned camera tricks rather than slamming in CGI(they couldn’t have, this movie was made in the 60s).

**Cinematography:** 2.4/3

**Acting:** 2.1/3

**Plot:** 2/3

**Total:** 6.5/9.0 or 72.2%