---
layout: post
title: "Lolita (1962)"
subtitle: "Such a slog to get through"
tag: Film
date: 2019-01-09
background: https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-jZfu84t2XgY/XKz06E_9T-I/AAAAAAAAQBk/3PxEKXg6iRwL5tAhX-XbsKTgr1S9jNZdQCLcBGAs/s1600/lol1.jpg
---
Lolita is repetitive, boring and predictable. The writing is so lazy and disappointing and the plot is overextended and keeps going around in circles. The performances that the actors give are all pathetic except for Peter Seller’s portrayal of Clare Quilty is eccentric and interesting, and I am disappointed that this character did not get more screentime in this one-hundred and fifty-minute long movie. The cinematography isn’t particularly amazing, even though some shots are framed and lit effectively. However, the editing is atrocious because the editor uses fade-outs and crossfades between scenes, even if they are completely unnecessary.

Lolita follows Humbert Humbert is a professor who has moved to an American suburb. In this suburb, he rents a room from a lonely widow and finds himself getting romantically attracted to the 16-year-old daughter of this widow. Lolita’s main problem is the lack of any inventiveness in the plot. It is just a cliched romance story between an old man and a young lady. The entire ending should have been ripped away in favour of a more bittersweet ending and the whole subplot with Lolita’s mother should have been removed.

The acting in Lolita is intense. Intense does not necessarily mean good. Most of the actors play their characters really, really intensely, and this delivers multiple performances that flit between good and bad quickly. The parent-daughter dynamic between Lolita and Humbert just doesn’t work and because it doesn’t change over the course of the movie, it just seems boring.

The cinematography in Lolita isn’t exactly exceptional and the editing is even worse. Lolita’s cinematographer, John Toll, chooses to stick to a conventional style of framing the scene. However, the transitions between rooms are interesting, especially in the early part of the movie. The editing is horrible, especially since the editor over utilises fades throughout the movie. This has the effect of constantly disengaging the audience even when the movie should aim to keep them hooked.

**Cinematography:** 1.6/3

**Acting:** 1.7/3

**Plot:** 1.5/3

**Total:** 4.8/9.0 or 53.3%